create a get started landing page (#5269)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/get-started-dbt.md

    body="Learn how to integrate dbt Cloud with Databricks for efficient data processing and analysis."
    link="https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/databricks"
    icon="databricks"/>

<Card
    title="Quickstart for dbt Cloud and Microsoft Fabric"
    body="Explore the synergy between dbt Cloud and Microsoft Fabric to optimize your data transformations."
    link="https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/microsoft-fabric"
    icon="fabric"/>

<Card
    title="Quickstart for dbt Cloud and Redshift"
    body="Learn how to connect dbt Cloud to Redshift for more agile data transformations."
    link="https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/redshift"
    icon="redshift"/>

<Card
    title="Quickstart for dbt Cloud and Snowflake"
    body="Unlock the full potential of using dbt Cloud with Snowflake for your data transformations."
    link="https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/snowflake"
    icon="snowflake"/>

<Card
    title="Quickstart for dbt Cloud and Starburst Galaxy"
    body="Leverage dbt Cloud with Starburst Galaxy to enhance your data transformation workflows."
    link="https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/starburst-galaxy"
    icon="starburst"/>

</div>

### dbt Core

> [dbt Core](/docs/core/about-core-setup) is a command-line [open-source tool](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core) that enables data teams to transform data using analytics engineering best practices. It's suitable for ‘single players’ and small technical teams who prefer manual setup and customization.

Author: ```suggestion
[dbt Core](/docs/core/about-core-setup) is a command-line [open-source tool](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core) that enables data teams to transform data using analytics engineering best practices. It's suitable for ‘single players’ and small technical teams who prefer manual setup.
```

---
title: "dbt Quickstarts"
id: get-started-dbt
hide_table_of_contents: true
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
---

Begin your dbt journey by trying one of our quickstarts, which provides a step-by-step guide to help you set up dbt Cloud or dbt Core with a [variety of data platforms](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections).

> ## dbt Cloud

Author: ```suggestion

## dbt Cloud
```

> Start your dbt journey by trying one of our quickstarts, which provides a step-by-step guide to help you set up dbt Cloud with a [variety of data platforms](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections). dbt Cloud is a scalable solution that enables you to develop, test, deploy, and explore data products using a single, fully managed software service.

Reviewer: Suggest moving that last sentence to the next part:
```suggestion
Begin your dbt journey by trying one of our quickstarts, which provides a step-by-step guide to help you set up dbt Cloud or dbt Core with a [variety of data platforms](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections).
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## dbt Cloud
```

> dbt Cloud enables teams with diverse skillsets build reliable data products, at any scale, with capabilities including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt Cloud is a scalable solution that enables you to develop, test, deploy, and explore data products using a single, fully managed software service. dbt Cloud enables teams with diverse skills to build reliable data products at any scale, with capabilities including:
```

- Development experiences tailored to multiple personas (in-browser [dbt Cloud IDE](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud) or locally with the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation))
- Out-of-the-box [CI/CD workflows](/docs/deploy/ci-jobs)

> - The [dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl) for consistent metrics that can be delivered to any end-point

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl) for consistent metrics that can be delivered to any endpoint
```

- Domain ownership of data with multi-project [dbt Mesh](/best-practices/how-we-mesh/mesh-1-intro) setups
- [dbt Explorer](/docs/collaborate/explore-projects) for collaborative data discovery and understanding

Learn more about [dbt Cloud features](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/dbt-cloud-features) and [start your free trial](https://www.getdbt.com/signup/) today.

<div className="grid--3-col">

<Card
    title="Quickstart for dbt Cloud and BigQuery"

>     body="Discover how to leverage dbt Cloud with BigQuery to streamline your analytics workflows."

Reviewer: I understand why we might change these to avoid appearing repetitive, but for search purposes, would it help to have all of these start the same way "Learn how to..."?

Author: i think repetitive content affects seo negatively so am happy to keep it different!

    title="Quickstart for dbt Cloud and Databricks"
    body="Learn how to integrate dbt Cloud with Databricks for efficient data processing and analysis."
    link="https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/databricks"
    icon="databricks"/>

<Card
    title="Quickstart for dbt Cloud and Microsoft Fabric"
    body="Explore the synergy between dbt Cloud and Microsoft Fabric to optimize your data transformations."
    link="https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/microsoft-fabric"
    icon="fabric"/>

<Card
    title="Quickstart for dbt Cloud and Redshift"
    body="Learn how to connect dbt Cloud to Redshift for more agile data transformations."
    link="https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/redshift"
    icon="redshift"/>

<Card
    title="Quickstart for dbt Cloud and Snowflake"
    body="Unlock the full potential of using dbt Cloud with Snowflake for your data transformations."
    link="https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/snowflake"
    icon="snowflake"/>

<Card
    title="Quickstart for dbt Cloud and Starburst Galaxy"
    body="Leverage dbt Cloud with Starburst Galaxy to enhance your data transformation workflows."
    link="https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/starburst-galaxy"
    icon="starburst"/>

</div>

> ### dbt Core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## dbt Core
```

> [dbt Core](/docs/core/about-core-setup) is a command-line [open-source tool](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core) that enables data teams to transform data using analytics engineering best practices. It's suitable for ‘single players’ and small technical teams who prefer manual setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[dbt Core](/docs/core/about-core-setup) is a command-line [open-source tool](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core) that enables data teams to transform data using analytics engineering best practices. It supports community adapters and open-source standards. dbt Core suits individuals and small technical teams who prefer manual setup and customization. 
```

Refer to the following quickstarts to get started with dbt Core:

> - [dbt Core from a manual install](/guides/manual-install) to learn how to install dbt Core and set up a project.

Reviewer: Can we give Core a couple of cards, too? When folks are scanning, based on the Cloud section, that's what they'll look for

Author: i think it might look weird to have 3 column grids and then 2 on the same page. going to keep it as is for simplicity purposes

- [dbt Core using GitHub Codespace](/guides/codespace?step=1) to learn how to create a codespace and execute the `dbt build` command.

## Related docs
<!-- use as an op to link to other useful guides when the query params pr is merged -->
Expand your dbt knowledge and expertise with these additional resources:

> - [Develop with dbt Cloud](/docs/cloud/about-develop-dbt), which offers a fast and reliable way to work on your dbt project.

Reviewer: These should read like standalone sentences given the lead in
```suggestion
- [Develop with dbt Cloud](/docs/cloud/about-develop-dbt) offers a fast and reliable way to work on your dbt project.
```

> - [Best practices](https://docs.getdbt.com/best-practices) to learn how dbt Labs approaches building projects through our current viewpoints on structure, style, and setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Best practices](https://docs.getdbt.com/best-practices) contains information on how dbt Labs approaches building projects through our current viewpoints on structure, style, and setup.
```

> - [dbt Learn](https://courses.getdbt.com/collections) for free online courses that cover dbt fundamentals, advanced topics, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [dbt Learn](https://courses.getdbt.com/collections) offers free online courses that cover dbt fundamentals, advanced topics, and more.
```
